adding MariaDB image getting started guide (#861)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/chainguard/chainguard-images/reference/mariadb/getting-started-mariadb/index.md

---
title: "Getting Started with the MariaDB Chainguard Image"
type: "article"
description: "Tutorial on how to get started with the MariaDB Chainguard Image"
date: 2023-01-09T11:07:52+02:00
lastmod: 2023-01-19T11:07:52+02:00
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "mariadb-guides"
weight: 610
toc: true
---

The MariaDB images based on Wolfi and maintained by Chainguard provide distroless images that are suitable for building and running MariaDB workloads.

> In order to illustrate how the MariaDB Chainguard Image might be used in practice, this tutorial involves setting up an example PHP application that uses a MariaDB database. This guide assumes you have Docker installed to run the demo; specifically, the procedure outlined in this guide uses Docker Compose to manage the environment on your local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to illustrate how the MariaDB Chainguard Image might be used in practice, this tutorial involves setting up an example PHP application that uses a MariaDB database. This guide assumes you have Docker installed to run the demo; specifically, the procedure outlined in this guide uses [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) to manage the environment on your local machine.
```

Reviewer: I know most people will have it, but just in case, link won't hurt!

```
LICENSE  README.md
```

To retrieve the files you need for this tutorial's sample application, run the following `git` command.

```sh
git sparse-checkout set mariadb
```

This modifies the sparse-checkout configuration initialized in the previous `git clone` command so that the checkout only consists of the repo's `mariadb` directory.

```sh
ls
```
```
mariadb
```

Navigate into this new directory.

```sh
cd mariadb/
```

From here, you can run the application and use a web browser to observe it working in real time.

## Step 2: Inspect, run, and test the sample application

We encourage you to check out [the application code on GItHub](https://github.com/chainguard-dev/edu-images-demos/tree/main/mariadb) to better understand how this application works, but we'll provide a brief overview here.

This demo creates a LEMP (Linux, (E)Nginx, MariaDB and PHP-FPM) environment based on Wolfi Chainguard Images. We will use Docker Compose to bring up the environment, which will spin up three containers: an `app` container, a `mariadb` container, and an `nginx` container. These will run as services.

> Once the environment is up, you can visit the demo in your web browser. The `index.php` file contains code that does the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the environment is up, you can visit the demo in your web browser. The `index.php` file contains code that does the following:
```

```sh
docker exec -it mariadb-mariadb-1 mariadb --user php -p
```

`docker exec` allows you to execute commands within a running container. The `-i` argument allows you to execute an interactive command while the `-t` option allocates a pseudo-TTY to the process within the container. Because our goal is to access the sample database through the `mariadb` command line client, these options are necessary. Next, enter the name of the container running the MariaDB database; by default, this will be named `mariadb-mariadb-1`.

Following that, the remainder of this command represents the command that will be run within the container. Here, we run the `mariadb` command to access the database specifying that we want to connect as the `php` user. The final `-p` option indicates that we want to be prompted to enter the password.

```
Enter password:
```

> Enter "password" and you'll then be presented with the MariaDB command line SQL shell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter `password` and you'll then be presented with the MariaDB command line SQL shell.
```

```
Welcome to the MariaDB monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your MariaDB connection id is 3
Server version: 10.11.4-MariaDB MariaDB Server

Copyright (c) 2000, 2018, Oracle, MariaDB Corporation Ab and others.

Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

MariaDB [(none)]>
```

> From here, you can interact with the database running off of a Chainguard Image in a Docker container as you would with any other MariaDB database. For example, say you want to inspect the data generated by the example application. First, you'd select the sample database. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From here, you can interact with the database from within the `mariadb-mariadb-1` container as you would with any other MariaDB database. For example, say you want to inspect the data generated by the example application, you'd select the sample database with the `USE` command like this:
```

Reviewer: I think this reads a bit better, despite not explicitly highlighting our image?

```MariaDB
USE php-test;
```
```
Database changed
```

You can check what tables are stored within the currently selected database with this command.

```MariaDB
SHOW TABLES;
```

By default, this database will only hold a single table named `data`.

```
+--------------------+
| Tables_in_php-test |
+--------------------+
| data           	|
+--------------------+
1 row in set (0.000 sec)
```

Knowing this table's name, you can run any valid SQL query you'd like against it. As an example, the following query will retrieve every row from every column of the table. 

```MariaDB
SELECT * FROM data;
```
```
+----------+------------+
| data_key | data_value |
+----------+------------+
| code 	| 8898   	|
| code 	| 3857   	|
| code 	| 4314   	|
| code 	| 3153   	|
| code 	| 6259   	|
| code 	| 2331   	|
| code 	| 1418   	|
| code 	| 6348   	|
+----------+------------+
8 rows in set (0.011 sec)
```

You could also create new tables and insert data into them. The following example creates a table named `example_table` with three columns.

```MariaDB
CREATE TABLE example_table (
col_a varchar(30),
col_b int,
col_c date
);
```
```
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.013 sec)
```

> This command inserts a couple rows of sample data into the newly created table.

Reviewer 2: Nit, "couple" == two

```suggestion
This command inserts a few rows of sample data into the newly created table.
```
